NODE STATE CODES

Node state codes are shortened as required for the field size. These node states may be followed by a special character to identify state flags associated with the node. The following node suffixes and states are used:

*
    The node is presently not responding and will not be allocated any new work. If the node remains non-responsive, it will be placed in the DOWN state (except in the case of COMPLETING, DRAINED, DRAINING, FAIL, FAILING nodes).

~
    The node is presently in powered off.

#
    The node is presently being powered up or configured.

!
    The node is pending power down.

%
    The node is presently being powered down.

$
    The node is currently in a reservation with a flag value of "maintenance".

@
    The node is pending reboot.

^
    The node reboot was issued.

-
    The node is planned by the backfill scheduler for a higher priority job.

ALLOCATED
    The node has been allocated to one or more jobs.

ALLOCATED+
    The node is allocated to one or more active jobs plus one or more jobs are in the process of COMPLETING.

COMPLETING
    All jobs associated with this node are in the process of COMPLETING. This node state will be removed when all of the job's processes have terminated and the Slurm epilog program (if any) has terminated. See the Epilog parameter description in the slurm.conf(5) man page for more information.

DOWN
    The node is unavailable for use. Slurm can automatically place nodes in this state if some failure occurs. System administrators may also explicitly place nodes in this state. If a node resumes normal operation, Slurm can automatically return it to service. See the ReturnToService and SlurmdTimeout parameter descriptions in the slurm.conf(5) man page for more information.

DRAINED
    The node is unavailable for use per system administrator request. See the update node command in the scontrol(1) man page or the slurm.conf(5) man page for more information.

DRAINING
    The node is currently executing a job, but will not be allocated additional jobs. The node state will be changed to state DRAINED when the last job on it completes. Nodes enter this state per system administrator request. See the update node command in the scontrol(1) man page or the slurm.conf(5) man page for more information.

FAIL
    The node is expected to fail soon and is unavailable for use per system administrator request. See the update node command in the scontrol(1) man page or the slurm.conf(5) man page for more information.

FAILING
    The node is currently executing a job, but is expected to fail soon and is unavailable for use per system administrator request. See the update node command in the scontrol(1) man page or the slurm.conf(5) man page for more information.

FUTURE
    The node is currently not fully configured, but expected to be available at some point in the indefinite future for use.

IDLE
    The node is not allocated to any jobs and is available for use.

INVAL
    The node did not register correctly with the controller. This happens when a node registers with less resources than configured in the slurm.conf file. The node will clear from this state with a valid registration (i.e. a slurmd restart is required).

MAINT
    The node is currently in a reservation with a flag value of "maintenance".

REBOOT_ISSUED
    A reboot request has been sent to the agent configured to handle this request.

REBOOT_REQUESTED
    A request to reboot this node has been made, but hasn't been handled yet.

MIXED
    The node has some of its CPUs ALLOCATED while others are IDLE.

PERFCTRS (NPC)
    Network Performance Counters associated with this node are in use, rendering this node as not usable for any other jobs

PLANNED
    The node is planned by the backfill scheduler for a higher priority job.

POWER_DOWN
    The node is pending power down.

POWERED_DOWN
    The node is currently powered down and not capable of running any jobs.

POWERING_DOWN
    The node is in the process of powering down and not capable of running any jobs.

POWERING_UP
    The node is in the process of being powered up.

RESERVED
    The node is in an advanced reservation and not generally available.

UNKNOWN
    The Slurm controller has just started and the node's state has not yet been determined.